# Cloud Classification using Deep Learning
Clouds are beguiled and may influence lives of human beings unknowingly in their day to day life. Clouds are not only the impress of quotidian climate but also valve of weather. Shallow clouds play an important role in the subtropical wind regions by balancing global energy is a big question for science of climate. A common misinterpretation of the shallow clouds is that they can organize themselves into large patterns which are frequently perceived from satellite imagery. Researchers from the Max Planck Institute for Meteorology (MPI-M) and the Laboratoire Météorologie Dynamique (LMD), France, have categorized ten thousand satellite images in four types of classification named as flower, fish, sugar and gravel. The aim of this project is to develop a machine learning algorithm to identify the existence of patterns of cloud by studying the human labels. 
A model is designed to characterize mesoscale of shallow clouds found in the satellite imagery is described. Patterns of mesoscale organization could be identified in four different labels. They are Fish, Sugar, Flower and Gravel. Flowers are formed by circular clumped aspects and are described as their stratiform elements of cloud while fish has fish-bone like or skeletal structure of clouds. Sugar has small, compact clouds with low reflectivity and gravel clouds are formed by flurry fronts. The large areas of clean air are usually surrounded by fish and flower. All the four patterns were identified 40% of a time. The pattern which was found the most was gravel and the least identified pattern included sugar. The above patterns indicate interannual and occasional dissimilarity and also some scale selectivity level.  
So, in this, we build a deep learning model which can effectively and accurately classify clouds and their shadows in various high-resolution satellite imagery. For many years, climate change has been the most important and leading factor of political decision-making. There are many ways in which clouds can be organized, but the boundaries between different forms of organization are unclear. 
